# Meshviewer Development

## Building

For all methods you need to clone this repository and `cd` into it.

### Using npm

```bash
npm install
npm run build
```

A production build can then be found in `/build`.

### Using docker

```bash
docker run -it --rm -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v "$PWD":/app -w /app node npm install
docker run -it --rm -u $(id -u):$(id -g) -v "$PWD":/app -w /app node npm run build
```

Now you should have a production build in `/build`.

### Using nix

_Note that the nix build will only include files checked into git._

```bash
nix --experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' build .#default
```

You will find a symlink called `result` in your working directory, with the resulting webroot inside.

## Developing

In order to develop meshviewer you will need npm. You can obtain it via your package manager, or use one of the dev environments explained below.

There are two options for running meshviewer in development mode:

- Use your own config

  Provide your own config in `public/config.json` and run `npm run dev`. You will need to provide a working configuration with a `dataPath` that has a working `meshviewer.json`.

- Use the fixture mode

  Run `npm run dev:fixtures`.
  This mode serves `dev-fixtures/config.json` as `/config.json` and `dev-fixtures/meshviewer.json` as `/fixtures/meshviewer.json`.

  For timestamps in `dev-fixtures/meshviewer.json` you can use relative markers like `@now`, `@now-6d`, `@now-28h` or `@now-1w+2d`. They are expanded to ISO timestamps when the fixture endpoint is requested.

### Development environments

You can start npm in a docker container with the following command

```bash
docker run -it --rm --name meshviewer-dev \
  -u $(id -u):$(id -g) \
  -v "$PWD":/app -w /app \
  -e NODE_ENV=development \
  -p 5173:5173 \
  node npm run dev -- --host 0.0.0.0
```

Replace `npm run dev` with `npm run dev:fixtures` if you want the fixture mode.

### Developing with nix

There is a nix flake which provides a development environment. You can enter it by running `nix --experimental-features 'nix-command flakes' develop`. This will drop you into a temporary shell with npm installed.

## Testing

For unit tests run:

`npm run test:unit`

## Workflow

To submit a feature, you should fork this repository and commit your changes on a branch of your fork.
Then you can open a PR against this repository.

To align your changes with the linter of this project run

`npm run lint:fix`

## Conventions

Following you can find some wording and used functionality for this project.

Normally you should use meaningful and self explaining names for variables and functions
but sometimes using common conventions might help as well, for example `i` / `j` for index, `e` for exceptions or events etc.
but also names based on elements like `p`, `a`, `div`..

### Functions

`_.t("[translation.selector]")`
: Lookup translation based on dotted path from `public/locale/[language].json`

## Variables

`a` / `b`
: Used when sorting data

`d`
: Is normally used to represent a selected dom node but can be (sadly) any data object.

`el`
: An element or dom node

`f`
: Functions / callbacks

`L`
: [Leaflet.js](https://github.com/Leaflet/Leaflet)

`V`
: [Snabbdom](https://github.com/snabbdom/snabbdom) virtual dom

## Addition of new icons

Icons are SVG files in `assets/icons/svg/`. The CSS class `ion-<name>` is generated by `assets/icons/icon.scss` and renders the SVG via `mask-image` with `currentColor`, so icons inherit text color and scale with `font-size`.

- Add the SVG to `assets/icons/svg/<name>.svg`. Use a square `viewBox` and a single-colour shape (mask uses the alpha channel).
- Register it in `assets/icons/icon.scss` with `@include icon.icon("<name>");`.
- Use it in markup as `class="ion-<name>"`.
